Benjamin was the father of Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second son, Aharah the third,
Nohah the fourth and Rapha the fifth.
The sons of Bela were: Addar, Gera, Abihud,
Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
Gera, Shephuphan and Huram.
These were the descendants of Ehud, who were heads of families of those living in Geba and were deported to Manahath: Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, who deported them and who was the father of Uzza and Ahihud.
Sons were born to Shaharaim in Moab after he had divorced his wives Hushim and Baara.
By his wife Hodesh he had Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
Jeuz, Sakia and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of families.
By Hushim he had Abitub and Elpaal.
The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, Shemed (who built Ono and Lod with its surrounding villages),
and Beriah and Shema, who were heads of families of those living in Aijalon and who drove out the inhabitants of Gath.
Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth, Zebadiah, Arad, Eder, Michael, Ishpah and Joha were the sons of Beriah.
Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber, Ishmerai, Izliah and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
Jakim, Zicri, Zabdi, Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel, Adaiah, Beraiah and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
Ishpan, Eber, Eliel, Abdon, Zicri, Hanan, Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah, Iphdeiah and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah, Jaareshiah, Elijah and Zicri were the sons of Jeroham.
All these were heads of families, chiefs as listed in their genealogy, and they lived in Jerusalem.
Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon. His wife's name was Maacah,
and his firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab,
Gedor, Ahio, Zeker
and Mikloth, who was the father of Shimeah. They too lived near their relatives in Jerusalem.
Ner was the father of Kish, Kish the father of Saul, and Saul the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab and Esh-Baal.
The son of Jonathan: Merib-Baal, who was the father of Micah.
The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea and Ahaz.
Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah, Jehoaddah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri, and Zimri was the father of Moza.
Moza was the father of Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son and Azel his son.
Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
The sons of his brother Eshek: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second son and Eliphelet the third.
The sons of Ulam were brave warriors who could handle the bow. They had many sons and grandsons–150 in all. All these were the descendants of Benjamin.