To man belong the plans of the heart, but from the Lord comes the reply of the tongue.
All a man's ways seem innocent to him, but motives are weighed by the Lord.
Commit to the Lord whatever you do, and your plans will succeed.
The Lord works out everything for his own ends– even the wicked for a day of disaster.
The Lord detests all the proud of heart. Be sure of this: They will not go unpunished.
Through love and faithfulness sin is atoned for; through the fear of the Lord a man avoids evil.
When a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, he makes even his enemies live at peace with him.
Better a little with righteousness than much gain with injustice.
In his heart a man plans his course, but the Lord determines his steps.
The lips of a king speak as an oracle, and his mouth should not betray justice.
Honest scales and balances are from the Lord; all the weights in the bag are of his making.
Kings detest wrongdoing, for a throne is established through righteousness.
Kings take pleasure in honest lips; they value a man who speaks the truth.
A king's wrath is a messenger of death, but a wise man will appease it.
When a king's face brightens, it means life; his favor is like a rain cloud in spring.
How much better to get wisdom than gold, to choose understanding rather than silver!
The highway of the upright avoids evil; he who guards his way guards his life.
Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall.
Better to be lowly in spirit and among the oppressed than to share plunder with the proud.
Whoever gives heed to instruction prospers, and blessed is he who trusts in the Lord.
The wise in heart are called discerning, and pleasant words promote instruction.
Understanding is a fountain of life to those who have it, but folly brings punishment to fools.
A wise man's heart guides his mouth, and his lips promote instruction.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bones.
There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death.
The laborer's appetite works for him; his hunger drives him on.
A scoundrel plots evil, and his speech is like a scorching fire.
A perverse man stirs up dissension, and a gossip separates close friends.
A violent man entices his neighbor and leads him down a path that is not good.
He who winks with his eye is plotting perversity; he who purses his lips is bent on evil.
Gray hair is a crown of splendor; it is attained by a righteous life.
Better a patient man than a warrior, a man who controls his temper than one who takes a city.
The lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from the Lord.