PEDRO RIMARES AND THE PIGS
Rimares was herding pigs at the house of a rich man.
It was his job to feed the pigs.
He would go to take care of them on a plain where the ground was muddy.
He planned to play a trick on his boss there.
His boss was pleased with him, he boss was no longer afraid of him.
He sent Rimares to take care of the pigs.
When some hog merchants came by where Rimares was he sold the pigs to them.
"I’ll sell them to you, and if it’s all right with you, I'll cut off the ends of their tails and show them to my boss," Pedro told the hog merchants.
Then the hog merchants went off with the pigs, and Rimares kept all the tails.
As Rimares was a real scoundrel he stuck the pig tails into the muddy ground and shouted to his boss:
"Boss!" he said.
"Boss!" he said.
The boss didn’t hear him.
"Boss!" he said, and shouted several more times.
Rimares set out for his boss’ house and when he arrived he said to him:
Boss, I was shouting.
Didn’t you hear the pigs squealing over and over again?
They have sunk into the ground, only their tails can be seen.
What can we do?
Come with me to see where they sunk into the ground.
"All right, let’s go right away," he said and went with Rimares to the pig sty, where their tails were stuck in the ground.
Look at the tails, boss.
How are we going to get them out?
"Pull on them," said the boss, "pull them out by the tail."
Grab them by the tail.
Go ahead and pull them.
"All right, boss, I’m going to try, watch."
Rimares began to grab the pigs’ tails.
He pulled and one pig tail broke off.
"Look, one of the tails has broken of," Rimares told his boss.
"Go ahead and try another one."
Rimares went and pulled once more.
He did the same thing, he pulled another tail out.
"Go ahead and pull on another one," the boss said to him.
He went on doing this successively one after the other.
But he was just pulling out the tails of the pigs.
Well now, boss, the pigs don’t come out that way.
We better get them out with spades.
Do you have any spades in your house?
"Yes, go and bring them right away," the boss said to Rimares.
Rimares came to the boss’ house like the mischievous and ill-bred person that he was
The boss remained standing where the pigs had sunk in the ground. Rimares came to where the boss’ wife and two daughters were.
Rimares said:
All the pigs have sunk into the ground, so my boss said I should sleep with the three of you.
What are you saying?
"Are you crazy?" asked the boss’ wife.
Why would my husband say that you're going to sleep with me?
"You really are crazy," the boss’ wife said to him.
"No, it’s because he’s going to get the pigs out," said Rimares.
The boss kept shouting to Rimares:
"Hurry, hurry!" the boss told Rimares.
The boss' wife heard him and said:
Can that be what the boss is saying?
Hurry, the boss said I should sleep with you.
"Don’t the three of you hear him?" Rimares asked the three women.
But they didn’t want to sleep with Rimares. Rimares shouted to his boss:
"The three of them?" asked Rimares.
“Yes, the three of them," answered the boss.
"Listen, the boss said three," said Rimares.
"All right," said the boss’ wife.
She was angry because Rimares slept with her and her two daughters.
That’s not what the boss had said, he had said three spades, not three women.
Rimares had deceived the boss by sleeping with the three women.
He brought the spades to his boss.
Wait for me, I’m going to defecate, I'll be right back.
But the boss was left standing there with the three spades.
And so Rimares went away.
Since the boss didn’t know how to dig in the ground, he was just left standing there waiting for Rimares.
Rimares didn’t come back, he was gone for good. At nightfall the boss came home and said to his wife:
That Rimares deceived me, he just left me standing there where the pigs sank into the ground.
I’ll be right back, I’m just going to defecate, he said, and I believed him.
But he’s gone off again and hasn’t returned.
"That’s why I came back," the boss said.
His wife didn’t answer him.
She was angry.
"Why are you angry?" the boss asked his wife.
Why shouldn’t I be angry?
You sent that shameless fellow to me and my daughters.
See here, he slept with me and with our daughters.
You're the one who took in that scoundrel, you took him in.
The boss answered:
Could it have been that shameless fellow I sent that slept with you?
What did he do to you?
He took advantage of me and did the same thing to the two girls.
"He abused us and that’s why I’m angry," the boss’ wife told her husband.
"Oh," said the boss.
Could it have been because I sent him to bring me something?
I sent him to bring three of my spades to dig out the pigs.
I tell you in my heart I didn’t know he was going to lie to you that way.
I ask you for forgiveness.
What are we going to do?
It’s not my fault.