These were the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
The sons of Judah: Er, Onan and Shelah. These three were born to him by a Canaanite woman, the daughter of Shua. Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the Lord's sight; so the Lord put him to death.
Tamar, Judah's daughter-in-law, bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol and Darda– five in all.
The son of Carmi: Achar, who brought trouble on Israel by violating the ban on taking devoted things.
The son of Ethan: Azariah.
The sons born to Hezron were: Jerahmeel, Ram and Caleb.
Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, the leader of the people of Judah.
Nahshon was the father of Salmon, Salmon the father of Boaz,
Boaz the father of Obed and Obed the father of Jesse.
Jesse was the father of Eliab his firstborn; the second son was Abinadab, the third Shimea,
the fourth Nethanel, the fifth Raddai,
the sixth Ozem and the seventh David.
Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah's three sons were Abishai, Joab and Asahel.
Abigail was the mother of Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite.
Caleb son of Hezron had children by his wife Azubah (and by Jerioth). These were her sons: Jesher, Shobab and Ardon.
When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri the father of Bezalel.
Later, Hezron lay with the daughter of Makir the father of Gilead (he had married her when he was sixty years old), and she bore him Segub.
Segub was the father of Jair, who controlled twenty-three towns in Gilead.
(But Geshur and Aram captured Havvoth Jair, as well as Kenath with its surrounding settlements–sixty towns.) All these were descendants of Makir the father of Gilead.
After Hezron died in Caleb Ephrathah, Abijah the wife of Hezron bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.
The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron: Ram his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem and Ahijah.
Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel: Maaz, Jamin and Eker.
The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
Abishur's wife was named Abihail, who bore him Ahban and Molid.
The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim. Seled died without children.
The son of Appaim: Ishi, who was the father of Sheshan. Sheshan was the father of Ahlai.
The sons of Jada, Shammai's brother: Jether and Jonathan. Jether died without children.
The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.
Sheshan had no sons–only daughters. He had an Egyptian servant named Jarha.
Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to his servant Jarha, and she bore him Attai.
Attai was the father of Nathan, Nathan the father of Zabad, Zabad the father of Ephlal, Ephlal the father of Obed, Obed the father of Jehu, Jehu the father of Azariah, Azariah the father of Helez, Helez the father of Eleasah, Eleasah the father of Sismai, Sismai the father of Shallum, Shallum the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah the father of Elishama.
The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and his son Mareshah, who was the father of Hebron.
The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema.
Shema was the father of Raham, and Raham the father of Jorkeam. Rekem was the father of Shammai. The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth Zur.
Caleb's concubine Ephah was the mother of Haran, Moza and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez.
The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah and Shaaph.
Caleb's concubine Maacah was the mother of Sheber and Tirhanah. She also gave birth to Shaaph the father of Madmannah and to Sheva the father of Macbenah and Gibea. Caleb's daughter was Acsah.
These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim,
Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth Gader.
The descendants of Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim were: Haroeh, half the Manahathites,
and the clans of Kiriath Jearim: the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites and Mishraites. From these descended the Zorathites and Eshtaolites.
The descendants of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth Joab, half the Manahathites, the Zorites,
and the clans of scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, Shimeathites and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Recab.