This is the account of Shem, Ham and Japheth, Noah's sons, who themselves had sons after the flood.
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras.
The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath and Togarmah.
The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim and the Rodanim.
(From these the maritime peoples spread out into their territories by their clans within their nations, each with its own language.)
The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put and Canaan.
The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
Cush was the father of Nimrod, who grew to be a mighty warrior on the earth.
He was a mighty hunter before the Lord; that is why it is said, “Like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the Lord.”
The first centers of his kingdom were Babylon, Erech, Akkad and Calneh, in Shinar.
From that land he went to Assyria, where he built Nineveh, Rehoboth Ir, Calah
and Resen, which is between Nineveh and Calah; that is the great city.
Mizraim was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites,
Pathrusites, Casluhites (from whom the Philistines came) and Caphtorites.
Canaan was the father of Sidon his firstborn, and of the Hittites,
Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites,
Hivites, Arkites, Sinites,
Arvadites, Zemarites and Hamathites. Later the Canaanite clans scattered
and the borders of Canaan reached from Sidon toward Gerar as far as Gaza, and then toward Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha.
These are the sons of Ham by their clans and languages, in their territories and nations.
Sons were also born to Shem, whose older brother was Japheth; Shem was the ancestor of all the sons of Eber.
The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud and Aram.
The sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshech.
Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah the father of Eber.
Two sons were born to Eber: One was named Peleg, because in his time the earth was divided; his brother was named Joktan.
Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
Obal, Abimael, Sheba,
Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All these were sons of Joktan.
The region where they lived stretched from Mesha toward Sephar, in the eastern hill country.
These are the sons of Shem by their clans and languages, in their territories and nations.
These are the clans of Noah's sons, according to their lines of descent, within their nations. From these the nations spread out over the earth after the flood.