See, a king will reign in righteousness and rulers will rule with justice.
Each man will be like a shelter from the wind and a refuge from the storm, like streams of water in the desert and the shadow of a great rock in a thirsty land.
Then the eyes of those who see will no longer be closed, and the ears of those who hear will listen.
The mind of the rash will know and understand, and the stammering tongue will be fluent and clear.
No longer will the fool be called noble nor the scoundrel be highly respected.
For the fool speaks folly, his mind is busy with evil: He practices ungodliness and spreads error concerning the Lord; the hungry he leaves empty and from the thirsty he withholds water.
The scoundrel's methods are wicked, he makes up evil schemes to destroy the poor with lies, even when the plea of the needy is just.
But the noble man makes noble plans, and by noble deeds he stands.
You women who are so complacent, rise up and listen to me; you daughters who feel secure, hear what I have to say!
In little more than a year you who feel secure will tremble; the grape harvest will fail, and the harvest of fruit will not come.
Tremble, you complacent women; shudder, you daughters who feel secure! Strip off your clothes, put sackcloth around your waists.
Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vines
and for the land of my people, a land overgrown with thorns and briers– yes, mourn for all houses of merriment and for this city of revelry.
The fortress will be abandoned, the noisy city deserted; citadel and watchtower will become a wasteland forever, the delight of donkeys, a pasture for flocks,
till the Spirit is poured upon us from on high, and the desert becomes a fertile field, and the fertile field seems like a forest.
Justice will dwell in the desert and righteousness live in the fertile field.
The fruit of righteousness will be peace; the effect of righteousness will be quietness and confidence forever.
My people will live in peaceful dwelling places, in secure homes, in undisturbed places of rest.
Though hail flattens the forest and the city is leveled completely,
how blessed you will be, sowing your seed by every stream, and letting your cattle and donkeys range free.