Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, honor is not fitting for a fool.
Like a fluttering sparrow or a darting swallow, an undeserved curse does not come to rest.
A whip for the horse, a halter for the donkey, and a rod for the backs of fools!
Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be like him yourself.
Answer a fool according to his folly, or he will be wise in his own eyes.
Like cutting off one's feet or drinking violence is the sending of a message by the hand of a fool.
Like a lame man's legs that hang limp is a proverb in the mouth of a fool.
Like tying a stone in a sling is the giving of honor to a fool.
Like a thornbush in a drunkard's hand is a proverb in the mouth of a fool.
Like an archer who wounds at random is he who hires a fool or any passer-by.
As a dog returns to its vomit, so a fool repeats his folly.
Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
The sluggard says, “There is a lion in the road, a fierce lion roaming the streets!”
As a door turns on its hinges, so a sluggard turns on his bed.
The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; he is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who answer discreetly.
Like one who seizes a dog by the ears is a passer-by who meddles in a quarrel not his own.
Like a madman shooting firebrands or deadly arrows
is a man who deceives his neighbor and says, “I was only joking!”
Without wood a fire goes out; without gossip a quarrel dies down.
As charcoal to embers and as wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife.
The words of a gossip are like choice morsels; they go down to a man's inmost parts.
Like a coating of glaze over earthenware are fervent lips with an evil heart.
A malicious man disguises himself with his lips, but in his heart he harbors deceit.
Though his speech is charming, do not believe him, for seven abominations fill his heart.
His malice may be concealed by deception, but his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly.
If a man digs a pit, he will fall into it; if a man rolls a stone, it will roll back on him.
A lying tongue hates those it hurts, and a flattering mouth works ruin.