PEDRO RIMARES AND THE MULETEERS
Here's another story about Rimares.
It’s a story of how Rimares was a great scoundrel a long time ago.
In this story I am going to tell a little about what Pedro Rimares did then.
He was taking care of some mules and feeding them.
It occurred to him to do something mischievous and he cut off the mules’ lips with a knife.
Then he said to the boss:
Boss, I don't know what's the matter with the animals, they're just laughing at me.
"Look, they're laughing a lot," said to the boss.
Later he sent him out again to bring grass for the animals.
Since the boss knew that it was he who had cut off the animals’ lips, he ran away and didn’t return.
The muleteers went on a trip and came to the sea shore.
While they were cating Rimares came and deceived them once more.
He asked for lodging from the muleteers.
"I’m going to spend the night here with you," said Rimares.
"Go ahead and sleep, don’t worry, if you don’t have a blanket you can get into this sack," the muleteers told Rimares.
"Alright, I'll get in," said Rimares.
He got into the sack, and by cleven o'clock that night he was sleeping soundly.
When it was almost midnight the muleteers said:
"Now we can kill this Rimares once and for all, because he’s fallen asleep.” They heard him snoring loudly:
"He's asleep, we're going to teach this rascal a lesson. We're going to tie up the sack and throw him into the sea."
They tied up the sack, lifted it up and threw it into the sea.
Here is Pedro:
Goodbye, Pedro.
Why did you cut off our animals’ lips?
Now you're going to be finished, well see you later," said the muleteers.
They thought they had thrown Pedro into the sea in the sack.
Goodbye, Pedro!
And Rimares answered:
"Goodbye to everything, to your tamales and ropes," said Pedro from the other side of the sea.
They heard that the voice that answered them was his.
The muleteers were frightened and looked for their food.
They couldn’t find it where they had left it, nor the ropes with which they tied up the merchandise on the animals.
They had thrown everything into the sea and they were frightened.
Pedro was just laughing from the other side of the sea.
Ay, we’ve been tricked.
It was our food that we threw in the sea.
We can’t do anything about that Rimares, we couldn’t kill him.
See here, we're going to go hungry on his account.
Rimares had tricked them.