THE RABBIT AND THE SHEEP
Uncle rabbit had a sheep, it was an old sheep, and he went for a walk in the mountains with him. He rode him as if he were his horse. So he set out and came to a corn merchant's. 
He came with his sheep to the corn merchant's and slept there. 
When dawn came he set off again and came to a large cave. 
He asked a lion for lodging there and went up into the loft to sleep. 
All night long the sheep was waking him up saying:
"Uncle, I feel like urinating," said the sheep. 
How can I urinate?
Look, there are people in the house and if I go down there they'll eat me up."
"Oh," said the rabbit, "don't worry. Just lie on your back and urinate so that your wool will soak up the urine.”
Is it true what you say? 
I think they're going to eat us.
Urinate.
"All right," said the old sheep. 
He lay on his back and urinated. 
But when he was through urinating he fell off the edge of the loft. He had not been lying in his bed the way he thought he was. 
The sheep fell on top of the old lions.
They were frightened and they ran away crying: "The sky has fallen on top of us." 
As the sheep had made a noise when he fell among them, the lions were frightened and abandoned their house. 
As soon as he came down to where the old sheep was uncle asked him: "Brother, did you hurt yourself anywhere?"
"No, brother, but my buttocks hurt me," the sheep said to the uncle.
"Don't worry, brother, because this is where we are going to live. 
This house is ours now. 
"We're not going away any more," the uncle said to the old sheep. 
"Anyway, if your buttocks hurt, I'm going to make them well. To me those lions are nothing but crap. I'm going to give you this remedy, and it'll cure you. 
This house is ours now.
"But," said the sheep, "won't the owners of this house come back to eat me?" the sheep asked the uncle.
"No, they're not going to come back any more, because they were frightened. Now we have some work to do."
"What are we going to do?" asked the sheep.
"We're going to hang the skulls of the animals in the corners of the house, so that when they come looking for us, we can kill them right here.
So let's hang up the animal bones."
"All right, uncle," said the sheep, "as long as they don't come to eat us up."
"They won't come." They hung the skeletons of the big animals around the house.
When the old lions went to see their house they saw the skeletons the rabbit had hung up and they were afraid of them.
"Brothers," said an old lion to his companions, "I went to see our house a while ago."
Many of our comrades died when something fell on top of us.
Now the skeletons of our comrades are hung in our house, and so let's not go back there again, because if we do we're going to die.
The uncle deceived us, for he brought a vam pire to cat us.
Didn't you notice that the uncle's companion had horns?
It was he who attacked us and perhaps it was he who came to our house and ate our companions.
That's why we're not going there.
When he came home to his wife he told her: "I myself am going to match my strength against the vampire.
I'm going to go and sleep in our bed, and we'll see if he can do anything to me.
I'll match my strength against his.
"Don't go," his wife said to him.
"No, I'm going, I'm going to see our house any way," he said.
When he came to his house he went in and went to sleep in his bed. As uncle rabbit was clever, as soon as he saw the lion returning to the house he went back up into the loft with the sheep.
When he was up there he was figuring out how the sheep should fall down again.
"Now, brother, go and sleep on the edge of the loft.
We're going to do as we did before, although this time you may not feel like urinating. When you fall on top of the old lion I'm going to shout. That way the old lion will be frightened. Be sure and fall right on top of him.
I'll let you know when he's asleep.
Only if they catch me don't be afraid, for we've already won our house. Look, last time they all left, and only the old lion is left.
You'll see that they're going to be frightened again right away.
As soon as I push you down I'm going to shout in a loud voice so that they'll be frightened.
"All right," the sheep said to uncle rabbit.
The lion was awake all night. "Now I'm going to kill that vampire," he said. He was waiting, and it struck ten o'clock, and then it struck eleven o'clock. "Even though there's still nothing in my house that has confronted me I'm afraid."
The uncle was waiting for the old lion to fall asleep and he did go to sleep about eleven o'clock that night.
The uncle noticed when he fell asleep.
"Now, brother, the old lion has fallen asleep. Be on guard. Do you feel like urinating?" he asked the sheep.
"No, I don't feel like urinating," the sheep answered.
"All right, so now he has fallen asleep. Throw yourself right on top of him, so as to make him feel the pain." Then the old sheep fell on top of the old lion's testicles, and the old lion let out a cry:
"Don't eat my testicles! Let me go!"
The uncle said: "Now I'm going to get down fast, now that my companion has grabbed the lion.
The sheep cried:
"Ba-a-a-a-a," said the sheep. 
The old lion was frightened and came out of the house running. 
By shouting in a deep voice the uncle made him believe that they were many, but there were just two of them, the uncle and the sheep. 
When the old lion came back to his wife he cried. 
"They practically finished me off," he told his wife.
"Did you hurt yourself?" his wife asked him.
"My testicles hurt a lot, let's see if you can make them well," he answered.
The uncle and the sheep stayed in the house and had a big party.
They invited the cow, the horse and the deer. They invited them because the uncle and the sheep had won a house when the lion left it.
The uncle and the sheep had chased them away.
Those two had defeated those big animals all by themselves and they were very happy.