THE RABBIT AND THE COYOTE
This is a story of uncle rabbit and the coyote.
The rabbit came to a big rock, and there he deceived the coyote. 
He was leaning on the rock when the coyote came by.
"What are you doing, brother?" the coyote asked the rabbit.
"Come here quickly, brother, the sky is falling down on top of us," said the rabbit to the coyote.
"Lean against the rock and hold it up while I go for a stick. We'll prop it up with that," said the rabbit to the coyote.
"All right," said the coyote and began holding it up with all his might. 
Since the coyote was stupid, he just did what the rabbit told him to. 
The rabbit had said that he was going to get a stick, but he went and left the coyote holding up the rock. 
When the rabbit didn’t return the coyote shouted: “Come back, brother! 
The weight of the rock has made me tired. 
The rabbit still didn’t come. 
"No matter, I’m going to leave even though the sky may fall down on top of us," said the coyote. 
But when he ran away he fell into a ravine. 
The rabbit never came back to the rock and the coyote was lost.
The coyote went looking for the rabbit again and came to where he found him eating a prickly pear.
"What are you eating, brother?"
"Can’t you see, brother, how tasty our testicles are? 
I took out one of my testicles to taste it," said the rabbit, "and yours are even larger."
"How can we get them out?"
We get them out by smashing them with a rock. 
I'll go look for a rock. 
The rabbit went to look for a rock and came back with one:
"Hit your testicles with this. I'm going to leave now."
"Why?" asked the coyote.
"Because they re going to go flying quite a distance," said the rabbit. 
The rabbit got under the shade of a tree: 
"Go ahead, hit them, I'm going to see where they land."
The coyote hit his testicles with the rock. 
He cried from the pain in his testicles, and it killed him.
The rabbit came to a water well and saw the reflection of the moon in the water. 
As the rabbit was very tricky, he was always deceiving the coyote. 
The dumb coyote always followed him and didn’t know that the rabbit was deceiving him. 
The rabbit came to the well where the rabbit was. 
When he saw the coyote coming he began to drink the water from the well. 
When he arrived asked him:
"What are you doing, brother? 
The rabbit answered:
"Look, brother, there’s a lot of food."
"What kind of food?"
"Look," the rabbit said to the coyote. 
The coyote looked in the water. 
"I see it. What is it?" asked the coyote.
"There’s a cheese in the water," the rabbit said to the coyote. 
If we drink all the water we can get the cheese. 
Drink it, you're big and you can finish all the water."
"All right, brother," he said, and began to drink the water.
"I'm going for a walk," said the rabbit, and left. 
The coyote continued to drink the water, but the rabbit was gone. 
The coyote’s stomach began to hurt him, and he got diarrhea. 
He wasn’t able to finish the water, so the coyote abandoned the effort and left.