PEDRO AND THE PRIEST
Pedro was selling the clothes he got. He was laughing because he had deceived the merchant. Pedro left town and set off down the road.
When he came to a plain he sat down to rest.
Pedro felt like defecating.
Pedro defecated on the ground, and put his hat on top of the excrement, scoundrel that he was, because he saw a priest coming on horseback.
"What are you doing?" asked the priest.
"I’m taking care of a canary,” he told the priest.
"What kind of canary? asked the priest.
Pedro told him it was made of pure gold.
"What?" the priest asked Pedro.
"Take care of the canary and I'll ride your horse," Pedro said to the priest.
"All right," said the priest, and Pedro mounted the horse.
"Father, I don’t think he wants to go, because he’s used to you," Pedro said to the priest. 
Give me your cassock to put on, so that the horse will go.
"All right," said the priest and gave him the cossack.
Pedro put on the cossack and got back on the horse. He rode for a while and then came back.
"The missal is lacking," said Pedro.
"I'll take the missal so my horse will go farther," Pedro said to the priest.
He took the book and got back on the horse.
"All right, now I’m going to ride far away and I'll be back later. I'm going far. Take good care of our bird," Pedro told the priest.
The priest was left taking care of the bird under Pedro’s hat.
"Don’t let go of it because it is very pretty and it is made of gold," Pedro said to the priest.
Pedro rode off on the horse.
The priest was left sitting and taking care of the bird.
He sat there a long time, the priest waited a long time.
But he got tired of watching Pedro Rimares’ hat.
"What’s happened to Pedro? He hasn’t come. Could something have happened to him?" asked the priest. 
He's not here, he’s not, he’s not.
"I had better take out this bird." said the priest. 
Because Pedro said it was golden.
He put his hand under Pedro’s hat in order to get out the bird.
He thought that it was a real bird, but it wasn’t a bird at all.
When the priest put his hand under the hat he stuck it into the excrement.
He was startled because he had Pedro’s excrement on his hand, the excrement that had been left under the hat.
Pedro said that it was a golden bird, but he lied.
Pedro had deceived the priest.
As Pedro rode on to the next town, the priest stayed there on the plain.
He was crying because he no longer had his horse, he no longer had his cassock, he no longer had his missal, and he no longer had his shoes.
When Pedro came to town he immediately celebrated Mass.
The people were happy with him.
When the townspeople came he prayed with them.
But they thought it was strange that he didn’t look like the regular priest.
It was three o’clock in the afternoon when he celebrated mass.
"So now," said Pedro, "all of the girls are going to meet in the convent at four o’clock this afternoon, but only the girls over eighteen who still don’t have a husband."
Only they are going to study in the convent.
The girls arrived at the convent at four o’clock in the afternoon.
As they arrived the priest began to kiss them one by one.
What's the matter with this priest?
"He's bad, maybe he’s not the priest at all," they said.
Why is he kissing us?
The priest isn’t like that.
It’s not right for him to kiss us.
The priest said to the girls:
Now, I’m telling you that cach night one of you is going to come and sleep with me.
Then at four o’clock all the girls went home and told their mothers:
"Mother, the priest,", they said.
What’s the matter with the priest?
"He was kissing us and told us that each night one of us would go and sleep with him," one of the girls said to her mother.
"Oh," said the mother getting angry.
"It’s not the priest, maybe it’s Rimares. Your father said he didn’t recognize this priest.
He's of a different sort, your father said.
They went looking for the priest in the convent at six o'clock in the evening, but he was no longer there.
He had ridden off on his horse.
The priest had left a note in his bedroom:
"Now I say to you," he said in the note. 
I am Pedro Rimares, who passed through this town.
I will never return even once.
I am Pedro Rimares.