These are more proverbs of Solomon, copied by the men of Hezekiah king of Judah:
It is the glory of God to conceal a matter; to search out a matter is the glory of kings.
As the heavens are high and the earth is deep, so the hearts of kings are unsearchable.
Remove the dross from the silver, and out comes material for the silversmith;
remove the wicked from the king's presence, and his throne will be established through righteousness.
Do not exalt yourself in the king's presence, and do not claim a place among great men;
it is better for him to say to you, “Come up here,” than for him to humiliate you before a nobleman. What you have seen with your eyes
do not bring hastily to court, for what will you do in the end if your neighbor puts you to shame?
If you argue your case with a neighbor, do not betray another man's confidence,
or he who hears it may shame you and you will never lose your bad reputation.
A word aptly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.
Like an earring of gold or an ornament of fine gold is a wise man's rebuke to a listening ear.
Like the coolness of snow at harvest time is a trustworthy messenger to those who send him; he refreshes the spirit of his masters.
Like clouds and wind without rain is a man who boasts of gifts he does not give.
Through patience a ruler can be persuaded, and a gentle tongue can break a bone.
If you find honey, eat just enough– too much of it, and you will vomit.
Seldom set foot in your neighbor's house– too much of you, and he will hate you.
Like a club or a sword or a sharp arrow is the man who gives false testimony against his neighbor.
Like a bad tooth or a lame foot is reliance on the unfaithful in times of trouble.
Like one who takes away a garment on a cold day, or like vinegar poured on soda, is one who sings songs to a heavy heart.
If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat; if he is thirsty, give him water to drink.
In doing this, you will heap burning coals on his head, and the Lord will reward you.
As a north wind brings rain, so a sly tongue brings angry looks.
Better to live on a corner of the roof than share a house with a quarrelsome wife.
Like cold water to a weary soul is good news from a distant land.
Like a muddied spring or a polluted well is a righteous man who gives way to the wicked.
It is not good to eat too much honey, nor is it honorable to seek one's own honor.
Like a city whose walls are broken down is a man who lacks self-control.